Hi everybody and welcome back the last lecture we looked at how to concatenate strings and variables
or how to combine strings and variables.
Now we used name in a name example in our last program lecture and how we're going to do and this lecture
is we're just going to stick with this name example for a few more minutes.
So just bear with me.
So we have our name on our variable now as you can see here each time I typed my name I capitalized
my first and my last name and I did that just out of habit.
So let's just enter in a new variable first name.
And again I use it just go like that.
Capitalize But what happens if I don't.
So there's no way for us to know how a user is going to type in their name.
They could enter it in all caps all lowercase or they could capitalize the first initial of their name
and let's just type in last name as well.
Why were Alice
so again.
Imagine a program on the Web where you have asked a user for a first name and their last name but obviously
when you print that name back to them you might want to capitalize their first or last initial whatever
it might be.
How do we do that.
Well we use what's called the string title method.
So the title medaled and that method looks like this.
So we don't have to do anything to our current variables or the values.
What we need to do is work on our print statement.
So we have print and print our first name and then we followed up with Dot T I T L E.
Open and close brackets.
And that's called the piping title method and what that does is it capitalizes the first initial of
this variable.
So let's run this program and there we go.
So as you can see our variable here Tony is all lowercase but when we printed out the screen Tony is
now capitalized or at a T and Tony is now capitalized.
That is very very handy.
Saves you doing it allows you to take input from the user manipulate that input and print it out in
a nice clean format.
Now let's print out our first or our full name.
But before we do let's just change the S and a t to lowercase and we just go down here and we say print
name that.
Print name that title opening close brackets and make sure you close your brackets here.
And let's run this program again.
And there we go.
Perfect.
Even though our name variable is all lowercase it's output it because of the title method in a nice
cleanly formatted capitalized way.
So let's just talk about this title method for a moment.
This piece of information here t I t the open and closed brackets.
That is what's known important as a method.
So a method is an action that pipe and can perform on a piece of data.
So in this example we've used the title method to manipulate the data within the name variable so to
manipulate my name here or in your example your name and that manipulation has capitalized the T and
the s dot after that name.
Intertidal tells Python to make the title method act on the variable name.
So no go just adding it in.
You have to remember to put in the dash and adult with them.
Tell Spuyten to use the title method on our variable name and equally when we use it on first name.
Title told pite to use the title method on our first name and it would be the same with our last name.
So print name last name and dush which tells Python to modify the last name variable with the title
method.
Let's run this again and there we have it.
The standard has become the s in the stand and has become capitalized.
A very very handy feature.
Every method is followed by a set set of brackets opening and closing.
Because methods often need additional information to do the work.
This info is provided when in the brackets.
So as we'll see later what in the brackets here we will provide more information for a method to work
that could be user input could be anything.
We'll look at that later.
And that is an introduction into the python title method.
We will look at other methods in future lectures.
Thank you.
I hope all this made sense.
If not please ask me to Q&A.
Or check out the activity section.
Thank you and I'll see you in the next lecture.